adding port v1->v2 TEST-0048 (#13)
ScreaMy7/owasp-mastg: demos/android/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASTG-DEMO-0x48/MASTG-DEMO-0x48.md

Reviewer: The content does not align with the guidelines. Please refer to the guidelines and update them accordingly.https://github.com/OWASP/mastg/blob/master/.github/instructions/mastg-demo.instructions.md

---
platform: android

> title: Uses of Frida Detection Techniques (Default Port, Process Enumeration and /proc/maps)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Uses of Xposed/LSPosed Detection Techniques with Semgrep
```

id: MASTG-DEMO-0x48
code: [kotlin]
test: MASTG-TEST-0x48
tools: [MASTG-TOOL-0110]
kind: pass
---

## Sample

The snippet below shows sample code that performs three common Frida detection techniques used by Android apps as anti-instrumentation checks: a TCP scan of the default `frida-server` port (`127.0.0.1:27042`), a `/proc/<pid>/cmdline` walk for `frida-server`, `frida-helper`, `frida-agent`, `gum-js-loop`, `gmain`, and a `/proc/self/maps` read for injected Frida artifacts (`frida-agent`, `libfrida`, `frida-gadget`, `gum-js-loop`, `linjector`, `/gum`).

{{ MastgTest.kt # MastgTest_reversed.java }}

## Steps

> Let's run our semgrep rule against the sample code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's run our @MASTG-TOOL-0110 rule against the sample code.
```

> {{ ../../../../rules/mastg-android-frida-detection.yaml }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ ../../../../rules/mastg-android-frida-detection.yml }}
```

Reviewer: change file rule extension to `.yml` under the `/rules` folder

{{ run.sh }}

## Observation

> The output shows the semgrep rule matching the detection checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output contains the locations of all Frida detection checks in the code.
```

{{ output.txt }}

## Evaluation

> The test case passes because the app statically implements three independent Frida detection mechanisms, all flagged by semgrep. Review each of the reported instances in `MastgTest_reversed.java`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test case passes because the app statically implements three independent Frida detection mechanisms. Review each of the reported instances:
```

- Enumerating running processes via `/proc/<pid>/cmdline` looking for `frida-server`, `frida-helper`, `frida-agent`, `gum-js-loop`, etc.
- Reading `/proc/self/maps` looking for injected Frida artifacts (`frida-agent.so`, `libfrida`, `frida-gadget`, `gum`, `linjector`).

These checks are well-known and trivially bypassable at runtime.

{{ MastgTest.kt # MastgTest_reversed.java }}

## Steps

Run the static analysis rule against the decompiled code.

{{ ../../../../rules/mastg-android-frida-detection.yaml }}

{{ run.sh }}

## Observation

The output shows the semgrep rule matching the three detection routines.

{{ output.txt }}

## Evaluation

The test passes because the app statically implements three independent Frida detection mechanisms — semgrep flags:

- `Socket.connect` with `127.0.0.1:27042` (the default-port probe).
- The `/proc` enumeration that walks `/proc/<pid>/cmdline` and the `frida-server`, `frida-helper`, `frida-agent`, `gum-js-loop`, `gmain` string literals it greps for.
- The `/proc/self/maps` reader paired with the injected-library substrings (`frida-agent`, `libfrida`, `frida-gadget`, `gum-js-loop`, `linjector`, `/gum`).

!!! note

>    This is a "kind: pass" demo for static presence only: the sample contains the detection mechanisms expected by the test. The dynamic counterpart @MASTG-DEMO-0x49 covers a runtime bypass that defeats all three of these checks.

Reviewer: Remove
```suggestion

```
